# Summery

 Generative Adversarial Networks are good at generating random images. As an example, a GAN which was trained on images of cats can generate random images of a cat having two eyes, two ears, whiskers. But the color pattern on the cat could be very random. So, random images are often not useful to solve business use cases. Now, asking GAN to generate an image based on our expectation, is an extremely difficult task.

But there is a GAN architecture that made significant progress in generating meaningful images based on an explicit textual description. This GAN formulation takes a textual description as input and generates an RGB image that was described in the textual description.

As an example, given “this flower has a lot of small round pink petals” as input, it will generate an image of a flower having round pink petals.

As an example, the textual description has been transformed into a 256-dimensional embedding and concatenated with a 100-dimensional noise vector [which was sampled from a latent space which is usually a random Normal distribution].

This formulation will help the Generator to generate images that are aligned with the input description instead of generating random images.

For the Discriminator, instead of having the only image as input, a pair of image and text embedding are sent as input. Output signals are either 0 or 1. Earlier the Discriminator’s responsibility was just to predict whether a given image is real or fake.

Now, the Discriminator has one more additional responsibility. Along with identifying the given image is read or fake, it also predicts the likelihood of whether the given image and text aligned with each other.

This formulation force the Generator to not only generate images that look real but also to generate images that are aligned with the input textual description.

To fulfill the purpose of the 2-fold responsibility of the Discriminator, during training time, a series of different (image, text) pairs are given as input to the model which are as follows:

    Pair of (Real Image, Real Caption) as input and target variable is set to 1
    Pair of (Wrong Image, Real Caption) as input and target variable is set to 0
    Pair of (Fake Image, Real Caption) as input and target variable is set to 0

The pair of Real Image and Real Caption are given so that the model learns whether a given image and text pair are aligned with each other. The wrong Image, Read Caption means the image is not as described in the caption. In this case, the target variable is set to 0 so that the model learns that the given image and caption are not aligned. Here Fake Image means an image generated by the Generator, in this case, the target variable is set to 0 so that the Discriminator model can distinguish between real and fake images.

The training dataset used for the training has image along with 10 different textual description that describes properties of the image.
